README.md, before:

evergreen-foreign
=================

This is a wrapper script around the [evergreen](https://github.com/evergreen-ci/evergreen) CLI tool that allow submitting patch builds from a "foreign" repository, that is, one which logically contains the code for the project, but with modified git history (such that the local commit ids are different to those in the actual project repository).

For example, this may be necessary if the project has historical commits that are too large to be pushed to Github, and it's not appropriate to use a branch or fork of the actual project Github repo.


Installation
------------

1. Install [shwrapnel](https://github.com/devkev/shwrapnel) by copying (or linking) the `shwrapnel` script somewhere in your `$PATH`.  (It does not need to be executable.)

2. Ensure that the actual `evergreen` cli tool is already installed somewhere in your `$PATH`.

3. Install the [evergreen](./evergreen) wrapper script by copying (or linking) it to an _*earlier*_ location in your `$PATH`.  If necessary, make it executable with `chmod a+x`.


Usage
-----

Most invocations of the `evergreen` wrapper will be passed through verbatim, and have unchanged behaviour.

The wrapper allows passing a new `--common-point` argument to `evergreen patch`, which indicates the git commit ref to be used as the base commit for the patch.  The commit message for this ref will be scanned, and the first git commit hash (40 hex digits) found is treated as the corresponding git commit hash in the actual project repo.

Commit message:

update docs for manual foreign common point

README.md, after:

evergreen-foreign
=================

This is a wrapper script around the [evergreen](https://github.com/evergreen-ci/evergreen) CLI tool that allow submitting patch builds from a "foreign" repository, that is, one which logically contains the code for the project, but with modified git history (such that the local commit ids are different to those in the actual project repository).

For example, this may be necessary if the project has historical commits that are too large to be pushed to Github, and it's not appropriate to use a branch or fork of the actual project Github repo.


Installation
------------

1. Install [shwrapnel](https://github.com/devkev/shwrapnel) by copying (or linking) the `shwrapnel` script somewhere in your `$PATH`.  (It does not need to be executable.)

2. Ensure that the actual `evergreen` cli tool is already installed somewhere in your `$PATH`.

3. Install the [evergreen](./evergreen) wrapper script by copying (or linking) it to an _*earlier*_ location in your `$PATH`.  If necessary, make it executable with `chmod a+x`.


Usage
-----

Most invocations of the `evergreen` wrapper will be passed through verbatim, and have unchanged behaviour.

The wrapper allows passing a new `--common-point` argument to `evergreen patch`:
```
evergreen patch ... --common-point local_common_point=foreign_common_point
```

This indicates the patch should be taken against git commit ref `local_common_point` in the local tree, and that this commit corresponds to commit ref `foreign_common_point` in the "actual" upstream project repo.  Eg:
```
$ evergreen patch ... --common-point f0b65992790ddaa74698b2209cbcad91417327be=83972b91fc8c84f38217c36735cf0828888a774a
```

If the `=foreign_common_point` specifier is omitted, then the wrapper will scan the commit message of `local_common_point`, and use the first git commit hash (40 hex digits) as the `foreign_common_point`.  Eg:
```
$ git show --no-patch f0b65992790ddaa74698b2209cbcad91417327be
commit f0b65992790ddaa74698b2209cbcad91417327be
Author: Kevin Pulo <kevin.pulo@mongodb.com>
Date:   Sat Aug 28 14:49:09 2021 +1000

    mongodb/mongo as of 83972b91fc8c84f38217c36735cf0828888a774a

$ evergreen patch ... --common-point f0b65992790ddaa74698b2209cbcad91417327be
```
